### Explanation of control elements

- **Data version:** Choose a date from the past to see nowcasts as they were made on that date. This enables comparisons between past nowcasts and eventually observed data.
- **Stratification**: Nowcasts can be shown for the whole of Germany, by Bundesland (federal state) or age group.
- **Prediction interval**: Should a prediction interval be shown? 95% prediction intervals are supposed to contain the true value in 95% of the cases, 50% prediction intervals in 50% of the cases. Note that in practice the true values are often contained less frequently than intended.
- **Show as**: Data and nowcasts can be shown on a logarithmic or a natural scale. Exponential growth or decline corresponds to a straight line on the logarithmic scale. Moreover, you can choose between absolute numbers and numbers per 100.000 population. The latter makes values more comparable e.g. across federal states.
- **Time series by appearance in RKI data**: An alternative to the nowcast of hospitalization incidences by *Meldedatum* (date at which the first positive test of a person was reported to the local health authorities) is to aggregate hospitalization incidences by the date when they first appeared in the RKI data set. These numbers do not change over the following days, meaning that recent trends are easier to interpret.
- **Show last two days**: For the last two days nowcasts are not very reliable as only a small proportion of the hospitalizations for the respective Meldedatum have already been reported. Not all models produce nowcasts for these days, and by default they are not diplayed.
- **Show retrospective nowcasts**: For research purposes we also collect nowcasts which have been created retrospectively, but based on the data version of the respective date. To avoid confusion with nowcasts generated in real time they are not displayed by default.
